      
	  
	Quiz 1               Name: Yibeltal Engida
	
	Answer for Question #1
	
	 Data is a collection of facts that can be recorded. It maybe text, number, videos, images.
	  In the context of computing and information technology, data is often the input for processes that generate meaningful information.
	
	Answer for Question #2
	
	Information generally refers to data that has been processed or organized in a meaningful way to convey knowledge or meaning. 
	It is a broad term that encompasses facts, knowledge, and insights derived from data. 
	In a more technical sense, information is often considered as the result of processing, manipulating, and organizing data to reduce 
	uncertainty, increase understanding, or make decisions.
	
	Answer for Question #3
	
	  Database is a systematic collection of related Data that represents some real world entities.
	  A database is a structured collection of data that is organized and stored in a way that enables efficient retrieval, management,
	and updating of that data. It is designed to provide a systematic and organized approach to data storage and retrieval.
	
	Answer for Question #4
	 
	A Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is a type of database management system that organizes data into tables, 
	which consist of rows and columns. It is based on the relational model of data, proposed by Edgar F. Codd in 1970. 
	The relational model represents data as tables, where each table has rows that correspond to records and columns that represent attributes or fields.
	
	Answer for Question #5
	
	*To manage and organize data in a structured manner.
	*To enforce data integrity
	*For Data retrieval and Querying
	*It offers robust security features, including user authentication, authorization and encryption.
	
	Answer for Question #6
	
	Relational databases organize data into tables with rows and columns. In relational DB
data is stored in a structured format, and each table has a predefined schema. Whereas, Non-Relational (NoSQL) databases can handle structured, 
semi-structured, or unstructured data. Documents, graphs, wide-column stores, and key-value pairs are common data models.

   Answer for Question #7
   
    Here are some Rxamples of Relational Database Management System:
        My SQL
		Postgre SQL
		Microsoft SQL Server
		Oracle Database
		SQLite
		IBM Db2
		MariaDB
		Amazaon Aurora
		
	Answer for Question #8
	
	 The following are examples of Non Relational Database Management System:
	    MongoDB
		Cassandra
		Couchbase
		Redis
		Amazon DynamoDB
		Neo4j
		Riak
		
	Answer for Question #9
	 
	 Structured Query Language (SQL) is the core of a relational database which is used for accessing and managing the database.
	 SQL is a standardized language for interacting with RDBMS and is widely used for tasks such as querying data, updating data, 
	 inserting data, and creating or modifying database schema.
	 
	 Answer for Question #10
	 
	   The different subsets of SQL are:
	      DDL
		  DML
		  DCL
		  TCL
	 DDL: Data Definition Language allows users to perform various operations on the DB
	      All DDL commands are auto-committed. That means it saves all the changes permanently in the database.
	 DML: Data Manipulation Language commands are used for manipulating the data stored in the table and not the table itself.
	      It allows us to access and manipulate data. It also helps us to insert, update, delete and retrieve data from the DB.
     DCL: Data Control Languages are the commands to grant and take back authority from any databaseuser.
	      It allows us to control access to the database. Example-Grant and Revoke access permissions.
     TCL: Transaction Control Language commands are used to manage transactions in the database. These are used to manage the changes
	      made to the data in a table by DML statements. It also allows statements to be grouped together into logical transactions.
		  Example-Commit, Rollback, Savepoint, Set Transaction
		
    Answer for Question #11
	
	    A table is a collection of related data held in a table format with in a database. It consists of columns and rows.
		In relational databases, and flat file databases, a table is aset of data elements using a model of vertical columns and horizontal rows.
		
    Answer for Question #12
	   
	    A column, also referred to as a field, is a vertical unit in a table.
        It represents a specific attribute or property of the entities (rows) in the table.
		A row, also known as a record or tuple, is a horizontal unit in a table.
        It represents a single instance or entry of data within the table.
		
		
    
	
   
   