
1. data is distinct pieces of information about an object
2. information is
3. database is a systematic collection of relational database
4. relational database management system is a software application that interacts with the user, applications and the database itself to capture and analyze data.
5. the importance of RDBMS : to make it easy to manage large amount of information
                           : handle security
                           : backups
                           : interacts with system application
6. SQL Database:  a database that stores data in tables with defined relationships between them
    NoSQL Database: a database that stores data in formats other than tables, allowing varied data structures
7.examples of Relation Database Management System(RDBMS) are:

  MySQL
  Oracle Database
  Microsoft SQL Server
  PostgreSQL
  IBM Db2
  SQLite
 8. examples of Non-Relational (NoSQL) databases:

    MongoDB
    Apache Cassandra
    Redis
    Amazon DynamoDB
    Couchbase
9. SQL is the code of relational database which is used for accessing and managing the database.
10. the different subsets of SQL : DDL (Data Definition Language): This subset is used for defining and modifying the structure of database objects such as tables, indexes, and databases. Common DDL commands include:

CREATE 
ALTER 
DROP 
TRUNCATE 
 DML (Data Manipulation Language): DML is used for retrieving, inserting, modifying, and deleting data in the database. Key DML commands are:

SELECT 
INSERT 
UPDATE
DELETE 

DCL(Data Control Language):  it allows us to control access to the database.  DCL includes commands that deal with the rights, permissions, and other controls of the database system. The primary commands are: GRANT: to give users access privileges to         the database.
REVOKE: to remove existing access privileges.
TCL (Transaction Control Language): used to manage transaction which is made by DML.
11. In a database, a table is a structured arrangement of data made up of rows and columns, which can be thought of as analogous to a spreadsheet.
12. Rows: Also known as records, each row contains a single data item or an instance of an entity (like a customer or a transaction). Each row in a table should be unique in some way, typically identified by a primary key.

Columns: Also known as fields or attributes, each column specifies a particular piece of information that the table is intended to store, like a customer's name or address.



