Quiz #1    Name Kassahun Befekadu

1.What is data?
Data is a collection of facts in different formats like text, videos, images & numbers.

2. What is information?
Information is data that has been processed into a meaningful form for the user.

3. What is a database (DB)? A database is a collection of data in an organized manner & which can be retrieved easily & accessible for the user in different ways.

4. What is a relational database management system (RDBMS)?
Rational database management system is one type of database management system that stores data in structured format in
Columns & Rows & RDMS uses Structured Query Languages to access and manipulate the data in the database.


5. Define the importance of a relational database management system (RDBMS).
Rational database management system has different importance including business data security, integrity and well structuredness of data.

6. What is the difference between a relational database (SQL) and a non-relational database (NoSQL)?
The major difference in RDMS & Non-rational database management system is the form in which they store data, RDMS     uses tables in the form of Rows & columns whereas the NRDMS used for storing large quantity of complex data & use
non tabular data formats like Document, Graphs & other structures.

7. List examples of relational database management systems (RDBMS).
Below are the Examples of RDMS.
-Oracles, Microsoft SQL server, IBM DB2, MySQL...

8. List examples of non-relational databases (NoSQL).
Here are some examples of non-relational databases.
MongoDB, Amazon DynamoDB, IBM cloudant..
9. Define and describe Structured Query Language (SQL).
Structured Query Language (SQL) is a programming language that is used to access and manipulate data in relational databases. It is the standard language for querying relational databases.
SQL can be used to perform a variety of operations, including;
Creating tables, inserting data, retrieving, updating, and deleting data.
10. List and describe each of the different subsets of SQL (DDL, DML, DCL, and TCL). SQL is divided into four subsets:
The different subsets of SQL are:
DDL; Data Definition Language
DML Data Manipulation language
DCL Data control language
TCL Transaction Control Language
11. What is a table in a database (DB)?
A table in a database is a collection of data that is organized into rows and columns. 

12. What is a column and row (tuples) in a table?
The Column runs vertically and represents specific field & Rows run on horizontal represent each record.
